we've been planting cover crops now the
last seven or eight years we started off
with oats and radishes the oats were
cheap everybody should know how to plant
oats and the nice thing about the oats
they don't overwinter they're gonna die
off and then we planted some winter peas
a few years ago I guess our big thing
now is I'm really into the cereal rye I
see a lot of benefits from it going into
soybeans the next year it could be a
little bit of a challenge with the Falls
that we've had lately trying to get it
established but you know that challenge
is well worth the everything that goes
along with it probably three years ago
when we had that real late spring and it
was probably into June where we got we
had about 300 acres of soybeans to plant
that year that we had planted cereal rye
the fall before a lot of this cereal rye
was anywhere from knee-high to six feet
tall from from the road it looked like a
mess I mean we had people stopping
asking us what are you going to do and
my comment was I'm one of no-till
soybeans into it and that's what we did
we just went in there no-till to beans
into it I had to take my Spader wheel
off the back of the planter and they had
to take my drag chainsaw and I had to
raise my row cleaners up that's the only
thing I had to do and it wasn't even an
issue at all
hit him once we got out there in the
field in the tractor it was it was
completely different looking at it from
the cab the tractor versus standing on
the road it wasn't
they're as thick as what appeared from
the road in that particular year that
was the first year we had had cereal rye
there was probably some of the best
soybeans we've ever had
they were bared the yields were very
consistent across the field it was
pretty warm and dry that year as well
and I think having all that residue out
there from the cereal rye it helps shade
out the soybeans it probably kept the
ground temperature cooler conserve the
moisture and just knowing on these
particular fields in the past on the
lighter soils the yields would have
normally really dropped off well these
was very consistent going across you
know the lighter soil they probably with
it within five bushels of you know what
the whole field ended up yielding so and
then that same year we had we had winter
peas in this field right here we got
them established in the fall about the
third week of September when we planted
them they didn't look that great but
then again I didn't know what they were
supposed to look like because I had
never planted them for and then in the
spring of the year they broke dormancy
and then we kind of had a little cold
snap and it kind of dinged them a little
bit and I didn't know what to expect
there as well and then just talking with
Jim Orman he said don't worry about it
when it warms up they'll start to grow
and sure enough Jim was right when we
started getting some 60 and 70 degree
days these things just exploded and
before you knew it it was knee-high and
we're still that was we were still
having too much wet weather we couldn't
get corn in the ground so then finally
when it did get to the point where we
could get into fields we sprayed the
fields and two days later we went in we
no tilled the corn into it
and then when we came in to side dress
this corn I want to say it was five or
six weeks after Dan merged it was this
kind of the same way you know the corn
was in six to eight inches tall most of
that peer esident Andy to them or
something I was just shocked at how fast
you know that they were gone